docs/concepts/connector.md, before:

# Broker connector

The broker connector is an extension for the [GCS Connector](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/bigdata-interop/tree/master/gcs),
which acts as an interface between Hadoop and [Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/).

The broker connector is used by the GCS Connector to access the broker service's gRPC endpoints. Recent minor versions of
both Hadoop 2 & 3 are supported.

You can find the broker connector's [package on Maven Central](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:com.google.cloud.broker%20AND%20a:broker-connector):

```xml
<groupId>com.google.cloud.broker</groupId>
<artifactId>broker-connector</artifactId>
```

The broker connector can be downloaded as a single JAR file, which must be placed in the `CLASSPATH` of different environments:

- On the user's client node, so the client can access the `GetAccessToken` and `GetSessionToken` endpoints.
- On the master node(s) where the session token renewer (e.g. Yarn) is running, so the renewer can
  call the `RenewSessionToken` and `CancelSessionToken` endpoints.
- On the worker nodes, so the distributed tasks can call the `GetAccessToken` to trade a session token for
  an access token.

For more information, see the documentation about [authentication](authentication.md) and [sessions](sessionds.md).

## Configuration properties

This section contains all the available Hadoop configuration properties for the broker connector.

### ```gcp.token.broker.realm```

The broker principal's Kerberos realm. If not provided, the logged-in user's realm is used to compose the broker principal's full name.

### ```gcp.token.broker.servicename```

Default: `broker`

The broker's Kerberos principal username.

### ```gcp.token.broker.uri.hostname```

Default: `localhost`

Hostname where the broker service is hosted.

### ```gcp.token.broker.uri.port```

Default: `443`

Port where the broker service is hosted.

### ```gcp.token.broker.tls.certificate```

TLS certificate for the broker service. Only necessary if `gcp.token.broker.tls.enabled` is `true`.

### ```gcp.token.broker.tls.enabled```

Default: `true`

Indicates whether TLS encryption should be used to communicate with the broker service.
If `true`, you must also provide `gcp.token.broker.tls.certificate`.

Commit message:

Add support for reading TLS certificate from path in the broker connector

docs/concepts/connector.md, after:

# Broker connector

The broker connector is an extension for the [GCS Connector](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/bigdata-interop/tree/master/gcs),
which acts as an interface between Hadoop and [Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/).

The broker connector is used by the GCS Connector to access the broker service's gRPC endpoints. Recent minor versions of
both Hadoop 2 & 3 are supported.

You can find the broker connector's [package on Maven Central](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:com.google.cloud.broker%20AND%20a:broker-connector):

```xml
<groupId>com.google.cloud.broker</groupId>
<artifactId>broker-connector</artifactId>
```

The broker connector can be downloaded as a single JAR file, which must be placed in the `CLASSPATH` of different environments:

- On the user's client node, so the client can access the `GetAccessToken` and `GetSessionToken` endpoints.
- On the master node(s) where the session token renewer (e.g. Yarn) is running, so the renewer can
  call the `RenewSessionToken` and `CancelSessionToken` endpoints.
- On the worker nodes, so the distributed tasks can call the `GetAccessToken` to trade a session token for
  an access token.

For more information, see the documentation about [authentication](authentication.md) and [sessions](sessionds.md).

## Configuration properties

This section contains all the available Hadoop configuration properties for the broker connector.

### ```gcp.token.broker.realm```

The broker principal's Kerberos realm. If not provided, the logged-in user's realm is used to compose the broker principal's full name.

### ```gcp.token.broker.servicename```

Default: `broker`

The broker's Kerberos principal username.

### ```gcp.token.broker.uri.hostname```

Default: `localhost`

Hostname where the broker service is hosted.

### ```gcp.token.broker.uri.port```

Default: `443`

Port where the broker service is hosted.

### ```gcp.token.broker.tls.certificate```

Alternative to `gcp.token.broker.tls.certificate.path`. Contents of the TLS certificate for the broker service.
Used only if `gcp.token.broker.tls.enabled` is `true`.

### ```gcp.token.broker.tls.certificate.path```

Alternative to `gcp.token.broker.tls.certificate`. File path of TLS certificate for the broker service.
Used only if `gcp.token.broker.tls.enabled` is `true` and `gcp.token.broker.tls.certificate`  is not provided.

### ```gcp.token.broker.tls.enabled```

Default: `true`

Indicates whether TLS encryption should be used to communicate with the broker service.
If `true`, you must also provide `gcp.token.broker.tls.certificate`.
